EECS 3401
Sample Test

(i) Answer all questions justifying your answers as completely as possible.
(ii) If a question is unclear, then make sensible assumptions, write
them down, and proceed to answer the question.

FIRST GROUP of PROBLEMS (answer YES or NO)

PROBLEMS 1 to 10:
1. As a knowledge representational language, the language of predicate 
   logic is less expressive than the language of propositional logic since
   predicate logic does not have propositional variables.     (YES/NO)
2. Propositional logic is a tool to investigate formulas that are
   "proposed" as true in a specified application while predicate
   logic is a tool to investigate formulas that are "predicted"
   to be true in a specified application.                 (YES/NO)
3. Let KB be a finite set of propositional clauses. Level saturation
   algorithm returns "NO" only if $KB$ is consistent and
   refutable.                                           (YES/NO
4. Every set KB of formulas of predicate logic can be translated into logically
   equivalent set of clauses.                        (YES/NO)
5. The purpose of the resolution rule in predicate logic is to
   resolve situations in which two or more different actions can be
   executed by an AI agent whose knowledge base is implemented in predicate 
   logic.                                             (YES/NO)
6. Can the following two clauses be resolved:
       X < 2+Y :- X < 2   and  -1 < X :-
      where X and Y are variables.                   (YES/NO)
7...10

SECOND GROUP of PROBLEMS

PROBLEM 11. The current Web-based search engines are not capable of making logical inferences 
            (i.e., the inference operation KB |- A is not supported). Would the addition of 
automated reasoning systems (say based on resolution) improve the performance and/or
functionality of such engines? Why? How?

PROBLEM 12. Explain the significance of Robinson's theorem on resolution for logic-based
            knowledge representation.

PROBLEM 13. Let X and Y be two non-empty sets of propositional clauses and X be a subset of Y.
            Furthermore, suppose that Y is consistent. Can X be refuted?    


THIRD GROUP of PROBLEMS

PROBLEM 14. An AI agent AG is designed to communicate in (a fragment of) English.
To this end, its KB contains a fragment of English in the form of
the following rules and facts:

(r1) if A is a noun-phrase and B is a verb-phrase, then (A B) is a sentence;
(r2) if D is a determiner and N is a noun, then (D N) is a noun-phrase;
(r3) if V is a verb and T is a noun-phrase, then (V T) is a verb-phrase;
(f1) JOHN is a noun-phrase;
(f2) STUDENT is a noun;
(f3) A and THE are determiners;
(f4) IS is a verb.

In this grammar, the sentence JOHN IS A STUDENT has the
form (JOHN (IS (A STUDENT))). 

Do the following:

(A) Represent (r1)--(r3) and (f3)--(f4) as predicate logic clauses.
    To this end, use the following predicates:
    s(X) -- interpreted as "X is a sentence";
    np(X)  -- interpreted as "X is a non-phrase";
    vp(X) -- interpreted as "X is a verb-phrase";
     n(X) -- interpreted as "X is a noun";
    vr(X) -- interpreted as "X is a verb";
    dt(X) -- interpreted as "X is a determiner".

(B) Does AG know that JOHN IS A STUDENT is a
    sentence? Why?

PROBLEM 15. Find all the resolvents of the following two clauses of first-order logic:
   (c1) p(X,f(Y)) :- q(Y,f(Y))
   (c2)  q(2,Z) :- p(2,f(g(T))), p(Z,T)

where: q and p are predicate symbols, f and g are function
symbols, and X, Y, Z, T are variables.
